i'm super excited about the text that we're in
today and so i want to start off asking this
question because i think that this will
really speak um to where we're heading
i hear myself in the background there
orville so it must be live streams working um
is do you want to become a better version
of yourself do you want to be better than
who you are today question anybody anybody
want to be better than who you are today
okay so at least most of us some of us just don't
care we just want to go down a step i had a guy
tell me last night we went to a gathering of some
church planters all the families got together
and uh he says man i'm just trying to live up
to your standards i said man you got to drop
down a couple of rings to get to me and rose to
get to me and he said no no so it's just that
reminder that i think at times um maybe we
want to be better but it's words rather than
actions we're not really doing anything to better
ourselves and so let me ask this question what is
one thing you want to be better at or better
in or better as a person what's one thing
somebody yell it out communicating okay what's
one more thing what'd you say patience okay
communicating in patience so now we know two
people who want to get better at communicating
and patience somebody tell me how you can
get better at communicating and patience
what's some things you begin to apply to your life
stay patient while communicating put them
together we've got it all together you guys
need to work together on this where do you think
we find our help in communicating better or in
being patient it's logical logical statement
anybody
through prayer okay that's
a good start right okay yes
no that's good too yes put
yourself in situations right yeah
so the reason why i'm asking that question is
every single time that we spend time with the lord
we can become a better person we can become a
better version of what god has designed each
one of us to be a better version of what god has
designed each one of us to be if we spend time
with him right through his word through prayer
through corporate worship through fellowship
we can become a better person and so those are
a couple of areas where you guys want to become
better and so if that's something that you're
really intentional about you can really go to
the lord and he can help you become that better
version of what you know he has a plan for you
right and so whenever i think about this i don't
know if you guys ever look around and you see
somebody who does have patience or somebody that
does communicate way better than you and you begin
to envy them and you begin to wonder like god why
can they communicate or why do they have patience
and i don't i don't i i tend to struggle with that
at times where i begin to look and go man somebody
has this and i don't have this and my pastor
reminded me this a long time ago he says you
know you can only be a second-rate someone
else but you can always be a first-rate you
and when i think about that is
you can only be a second-rate
someone else but you can be a first-rate
you that god's designed you to be
see today as we look into the story of jonah
we're gonna be in jonah chapter one we're gonna
walk through three more verses and some of you
may say are we ever gonna get through the book
of jonah at that rate i don't know we might but
we're going to cover three more verses uh four
five and six but we're going to start at verse one
and here's where i'm getting at with this idea is
jonah chose a second-rate life and i think many
times we find ourselves living second-rate lives
lives that god didn't plan for you but you chose
but god's saying i have a specific plan for you
and we are running from it just like jonah was
running so let me kind of catch you up a little
bit about what we talked about i said last week
but it was actually two weeks ago since we did um
our serve sunday last week as we started walking
through the book of jonah and we learned a couple
of things one is jonah was a prophet which i know
there's a song with that i'm not going to sing it
this week but jonah is a prophet which means
this god would speak to him he would speak to
people and people would either listen or reject
it and that was up to them right but there came
this one time when god told jonah what to speak
and jonah chose not to because he didn't like it
and so i don't know if you guys have ever not done
something that somebody told you to do because you
didn't like it but i know i have and my kids have
told me that too which makes me pretty frustrated
um but when we look at this this this book of
jonah we know that there's key things we hear
about we hear about the the big fish we hear about
jonah running we hear about nineveh but the really
the story of jonah is really about god um and
here's really specifically it's about god's will
which when you want to know what god's
will is it's really god's plan for you
so it's god's will and how we respond to it
and it's also about the love of god and how
we share it with others and so i want to jump in
and read these verses and i'm going to catch you
up a little bit about how we started a couple
of weeks ago in these first couple of verses
and then we're gonna jump into the other
verses so if you found jonah chapter one
and just so you know if you don't have a copy
of god's word you said hey i don't have a bible
there's two ways that you can get one one is when
you leave today or if you want to get up right
now back there on our next steps table there's
a bible it's white grab it it's yours it's free
if you don't have a bible and you don't
want to go grab one just pull out your phone
go to an app store and look up the youversion
bible app that's my favorite bible app to use you
can download it you can find the book of jonah
really easily and then you can jump in with us
but i just encourage you if you don't have a
copy of it to get one before you leave today
it'll be valuable for you so john chapter 1 verse
1 says this the word of the lord came to jonah
son of amitai get up and go to the great city
of nineveh and preach against it because their
evil has come up before me and jonah got up to
flee to tarshish from the lord's presence and
he went down to joppa and found the ship going to
tarshish he paid the fare and went down into it to
go with them to tarshish from the lord's presence
but the lord threw a great wind onto the sea and
such a great storm arose on the sea that the ship
threatened to break apart the sellers were afraid
and each one cried out to his god and they threw
the ship's cargo into the sea to lighten the load
meanwhile jonah had gotten or gone down into the
lowest part of the vessel and had stretched out
and fallen into a deep sleep and the captain
approached him and said what are you doing
sound asleep get up call to your god and maybe
this god will consider us and we won't perish
so last week or two weeks ago i keep saying last
week two weeks ago when we jumped into this book
one of the things that i i quickly wrote down and
really how i titled that message was don't be too
quick to judge i think it's easy to look at this
story and say hey the word of the lord came to
jonah and he ran what an idiot i wouldn't have
done that i mean the word of the lord spoke to
jonah if he spoke to me like that it'd be stupid
to run but the quicker that we got into the story
the more we realized that we saw ourselves in
the story see jonah had a wrong attitude towards
several things one was the will of god and the
second thing that we we talked about was the
word of god and so those two combined is really
this idea is jonah didn't like the will of god
jonah didn't like the word of god he didn't like
what it said and so he chose to take it or leave
it i don't know about you guys but there's times
when i'm studying god's word and i'm wondering
do i have to take this do is this true are we
sure that this is what god's telling us to do
i'm going to run i'm going to turn the other way
i'm going to act like it doesn't matter i'm going
to pick and choose so the other things that we
learned is we learned that jonah had a wrong
attitude towards his circumstances because see
when he began to disobey his circumstances at the
first seemed like things were okay he was sleeping
i mean of all things uh i mean that's that sounds
like it was easy for him to disobey god and the
last one was he had the wrong attitude towards
the lost people who didn't know god he really
didn't see his need to go tell people about jesus
at the end of this message a couple weeks
ago i don't know about you guys but for me
i was convicted because i began to realize i
had the wrong attitude towards the will of god
the word of god my situation and the loss of god
it wasn't just jonah so whenever early on i was
judging i was quickly changing to man that's me
at times i could easily be jonah in this story
and so today we're going to really just even build
off of that and see how jonah's attitudes lead him
to living a second-rate life and sometimes our
attitudes lead us to live a second-rate life
and so again when we live a second-rated
life again that's the life that god doesn't
have planned for you god won't leave us that way
that's really we're going to start off today god
won't leave us that way we talked about this verse
numbers 32 23 says this but if you don't do this
you will certainly sin against the lord
be sure that your sin will catch up to you
and this is what the lord is saying
is that if you are a child of god
he will not let you sin successfully without
drawing you back and so i want to read this if
you want to go there you can but i want to kind
of catch you up on this idea because i want to
affirm that truth and this is in hebrews chapter
12. and so if you want to go to hebrews chapter
12 you can if you just want to stay where
you at you can as well so hebrews chapter 12
verses 5 i'm going to read 5-12 and this is
where the lord talks about not leaving us
living a second-rate life so he says this in verse
5 he says and you have forgotten the exhortation
that addresses you as sons my son do not take the
lord's discipline lightly or lose heart when you
are reproved by him for the lord disciplines the
one he loves and punishes every son he receives
enduring or to me it says
endure suffering as discipline
god is dealing with you as sons for what son
is there that a father does not discipline
but if you are without discipline which all
receive then you are illegitimate children
and not sons furthermore we had human
fathers discipline us and we respect them
shouldn't we submit even more to
the father of the spirits and live
for they disciplined us for a short time based
on what seemed good to them but he does it for
our benefit so that we can share his holiness no
discipline seems enjoyable for a time but painful
but later on however it yields a peaceful fruit of
righteousness to those who have been trained by it
so those verses really just affirm this idea of a
child of god anybody that would say i follow jesus
when we are living second-rate lives outside
of the will of god god will not leave us there
god will bring about discipline and again
as a kid i hated discipline but as a parent
i see the value in it in disciplining my
kids because i understand the correction
for my kids brings about fruit in their lives
a valuable life a better life lived for god
and so when we think about this that that there
is someone waiting for you to live your first-rate
life there's someone waiting on you to live
your first-rate life and number one it's really
god's plan for your life the world is waiting on
the church to live their first-rate life to live
a life that is a light to the world live a life
that is drawing people to him that hears about
hope it hears about peace that hears about grace
and truth and love and god is asking us to stop
living that second-rate life and so what does
it look like how do we see this with jonah's
life what does it look like what does god do to
interrupt our disobedience right to interrupt
our disobedience or second-rate living well for
jonah he began to destroy jonah's idols so god
destroys our idols and so let me ask this question
what is an idol does anybody know what an idol is
something that you place before god so in the
old old times again you study old testament times
you'll see them talk about images like literally
create these images where they would worship them
well we say hey we don't have those idols anymore
right but they may be what's in your pocket or
they may be what's on the tv or they may be
your child's activity and so on and so forth
is see for jonah he put his trust in a couple
of different things right he put his trust in
his ability to run so he had the power and the
ability to outrun god which is kind of funny but
at times i wonder if i say the same things he put
his trust in the ship he put his trust in the crew
and the distance that god would that he could
create between him and god and anything that could
distract him from his calling and so god made sure
that the very thing that jonah put his trust in
fell apart and this is what it says at verse 4 but
the lord threw a great wind into the sea and such
a greatest storm arose that the ship threatened
to break apart he was breaking apart and creating
a storm in the life of jonah to stop him from
living the second-rate life the life that god
did not have planned for him and god does the same
thing for us and so let me let me ask this i kind
of started saying some of those but what are what
can maybe you don't have to admit your idols today
but what can become an idol in our lives why don't
we name some what can become idols in your life
work it's a good one what else social media
let's keep going other people ooh food
family sports man we could probably keep going
on and on and on so there's all these things
that become idols and so we we understand this
jonah being on a ship in general is not a sin
the crew being on the ship it's not a sin and
sailing on a ship is not a sin but it was the
direction he was heading and what that ship
was causing him to do which was run from god
so is sports a sin absolutely not but if we're
choosing to be consumed by sports rather than god
and the will of god it becomes an idol in our
life which is sin second-rate living same thing
happened for jonah right same thing happened for
jonah so for you there could be a thing a person
or a place that you have confidence in rather
than god one of the things i throw on there is
money um sometimes it could be our home again it
could be our friendship it could also be substance
the things that that we add into our lives
thinking that that's what's going to keep us sane
and so here's the thing that i know when it
comes to this idea of knowing man when do i
know that i'm living a second life because
sometimes it's difficult anybody ever drove
one of the newer cars i don't usually drive new
cars but i happened to be in oklahoma when we went
back a couple weeks ago and my sister let us drive
her car around and she told me she says now i want
to let you know this when you get in the car it's
going to be different there's going to be these
sensors that come on anytime you go over the line
it's going to beep at you and the light's going
to flash or if somebody's driving by you and also
when you're in cruise and somebody is slowing down
in front of you the car will automatically
slow down see that made me think there's times
in my life where i wish that's what it was like
knowing man i'm living a second-rate life god's
slowing me down i'm living a second-rate life
this light's going off but i started thinking
doesn't god do that in some ways so let
me ask this question what do you believe
god places in our life to help us know we're
not living the life that he's called us to live
what does he place in our life other
believers that's great what else
conviction that's another one right the holy
spirit of god lives inside of us so it should
draw us to conviction which means something's not
right with this situation that's good what else
what was that the word absolutely
anything else you guys can think of
i mean the only other thing i can say is
circumstances right there's times where
something happens and you go oh man this isn't
right something's not right right and that's
probably going back to conviction right
but i think at times is are we even aware
of what a first rate living could be sometimes
i think we think we're living that first-rate
life because we never truly experience what
god's plan or what god's plan could be it's
because we begin to neglect his word we get
begin to neglect other godly relationships
people to be able to speak wisdom into our life we
become numb to situations things like that right
but i started thinking about this has there ever
been a time where maybe you were more on fire for
god than you are right now and maybe you've just
got to the point of complacency or you just kind
of let life go and you just let the motions happen
and all of a sudden it's two years down the road
and you're doing the same thing you haven't really
shared the gospel and maybe you've been in and out
of the word maybe you've been at church or not and
it's come to this point where you know you're not
living the life you've been called to live that
first straight life that god has planned for you
i know for me there's times where even
as a pastor i go through those seasons
and i it's just it's almost like this it's
you guys know this you go to the ocean
and you go to swim and you put down your stuff
and you go get on the water and you have fun 15
20 minutes later you look up and your stuff's not
there where is it anybody know it's way over there
because you begin to drift the current takes you
down and you didn't even realize it see some of us
may be living at that moment where today and this
is the the part i love about god here's what i've
been praying because god's been speaking directly
to me that today's message is what you need
to recognize you've drifted there's something more
for you than the second rate light for your living
and that today's a day that you need to begin
to deal with that and here's the cool part god
has never left your side god is saying i'm here
i've always been here i've been here when you
drifted and i'm ready to reach my hand out and
help you get back up to where your stuff is to
where my plan is for your life and i think that's
just so encouraging when we think about that
god won't let us stay where we are right he'll
put things in place maybe days like today with
this message to get our lives back in line with
him i think that's really cool that god loves us
that much god desires for us to live a life with
purpose and you know i don't know about you guys
um but when i start thinking sometimes
about what is god's plan for my life
and there's been a lot of big moves us
moving to cincinnati was like a big move
to say okay we made a big step god i mean isn't
that enough but it wasn't just you make a step
of faith and then you stop you continually make
steps of faith and so for me at times it gets
scary because to live a first-rate life to live a
life that god's called us to live just like jonah
he's gonna have to turn the other direction and
he's gonna have to go to people that he may not
like and he may have to preach the message
that he's not excited about preaching and
he may go to a land that is desolate he may go
to a land that is destructive i don't know what
turning back and living a first-rate life looks
like for you but it may be difficult god's never
promised life to be easy he's promised life
with him present despite your circumstances
so yes it can be scary but we go back
to and i love where we started this
how do we begin to know how to live a
first-rate life how do we do it community
following jesus actively living out our faith
alongside other believers trusting the lord
because that's who we are as a church that's
why we have a church and the church is not just
sunday morning the church is look around this
is the church this is why we have each other
to challenge each other to go live our lifestyle
for jesus see i see jonah in this situation and
jonah didn't have anybody around him other than
people who didn't know the lord what if jonah just
would have had a friend next to him maybe his
his story would be different i don't know but
here's one of the things i wanted to mention is
at times when we see storms come into our life
we can get frustrated that god would
allow that storm to come in our lives
why lord why would you do this i mean i don't
know about you i've asked that question before
why would you allow the storm to come into
my life we thank god are you punishing me
but here's the truth going back to
hebrews god's discipline is actually love
because he doesn't leave you in
that condition if you saw someone
walking off a cliff because they had their
head turned wouldn't you scream and say stop
wouldn't you run and tackle them even if they got
bruises on their legs and their arms so that you
could save their life see that's what god's doing
god is running after you and he doesn't care what
it takes to get you to live the life that he says
is best for you that's how much god loves you
god sees so much potential in you that he
won't leave you in your second great condition
we should be very afraid though when god doesn't
pursue us and you're saying wait wait there's
times where god just lets us live our lives
however we want yeah when we absolutely reject him
when we absolutely reject him and we say no and
what i'm talking about here so you understand this
i truly believe if you've given your life to
christ that you cannot lose your salvation now
again depending on who you are i don't know your
stance on that here's my conviction with this god
says that he is the one that gives us salvation
and if he gives it the only way that we can lose
it is if he took it away we can't do anything
to lose our salvation so here's the clear part
though if we choose to reject god i don't believe
we ever truly accepted god if we choose to reject
god i don't truly believe we ever truly accepted
god so when god disciplines us he's discipline us
as children if god's not disciplining us we are
not his children that's what he's saying here
and he's saying you know at times and this is in
romans 1 16 through 25 and i don't have time to
read it but one of the things that it says here
in verse 25 of romans it says they exchanged
the truth of god for a lie and worshiped and
served what was created rather than the creator
as people have given themselves over to creation
not the creator and so when god is bringing storms
into your life it's a sign of love not hatred
same thing for jonah so here's the other thing
our second-rate living who does it affect
i think at times i remember as a kid my mom
and dad smoked and i'm not against smoking so
if you're smoker that's not what i'm i mean i
am but i'm not like saying hey you're a sinner
if you smoke but what i am saying this they said
well this doesn't bother you yet they were the
ones where in the back seat were choking over
their cigarette smoke this is only affecting me
many times in our lives our second rate
living we think well it only affects us
it's not true let's see in the story of jonah how
that's not true let's look at verse 5. so verse 5
says the sellers were afraid and each cried out
to his god they threw the ship's cargo into the
sea and lightened the load and then meanwhile
it says jonah had gone to lay down to the lowest
part of the vessel and then stretched out to fall
asleep see jonah didn't care he was able to sleep
he didn't care who he you know brought
into this he was sound asleep so the
sellers were afraid they even cried out
to their own idols right their own gods
they ended up throwing their cargo into the sea
to try to save their lives and jonah's lives
the cargo was meant to be sold so they gave up and
lost all of their cargo because of jonah living
a second-rate life their lives were in danger
because of jonah's second-rate living they had
lost all these things and one of the interesting
things is they tried everything else they could
rather than going to the one true god and maybe
it's because they didn't know the one true god
they did everything they could in
their own hands to try to fix this
what what about us if we're not living a
first-rate life that god's called us to live
who are we affecting i want you to think about
that when you don't live your life out the way
god's planned who are you affecting so let me give
you some scenarios i decided to create a couple of
these i don't know if these are true or apply
to you but obviously i'm i'm encouraging you to
seek the lord in what does apply to you so dad if
you're a dad in this room if you don't treat your
wife your kid's mother the way that god has called
you to as christ loved the church who's affected
well one your spouse because
she's not seeing christ in you
if you have a son it's your son
learning how to treat his future wife
if it's your daughter your daughter's seeing
how i guess she should be treated in her
future relationship so that's a that's a quick
one i mean that's pretty easy to apply so
man if we're not living our lives out the way
god's called us to us as husbands we're affecting
so many people because of our secondary living let
me give you a second one substance if you focus on
getting drunk or you're focused on something
that that gives you your fix whatever it is
and you're saying oh this doesn't affect
anybody else ask any kid that grew up in a house
that their father or their mother was a drunk and
they'll tell you different they'll tell you it
is drastically effective meaning they affected
their family tremendously yeah let me give you
another one here what about this what about just
not living your life out for jesus how does that
affect those around you if you don't prioritize
what it means to live your life out for jesus
your first rate life who does it affect well if
you have kids number one your kids will follow
you and how you live your life out for jesus
your co-workers your other family members
your neighbors those whoever activities
you're a part of if you aren't living your
life out for god you are affecting whether
they experience the true love of god so
if it makes sense here and guys this is where
i believe that god has given us a clear word
from jonah's life is man living our
lifestyle for jesus is not just a personal
it's a personal decision but
it's not just a personal effect
sometimes we get it all right which means every
day you study your word and every day you pray
but you forget living your life out in a way that
honors people or honors god around other people
and so it can affect other people i think
too many times we live as our life as though
it doesn't matter but here's what
i do know and so you guys know if
you know the story of jonah well enough
you'll say hey but doesn't it work out
and let me read these verses so because
we'll get to these verses later but
in verses 14 down i'm going to read these it says
so they speaking of the settlers after they threw
jonah off the ship it says so they called out to
the lord please lord don't let us perish because
of this man's life and don't charge us because
of the innocent blood for you lord have done
just as you pleased and then they picked up jonah
and threw him off and the sea stopped raging and
the men were seized by great fear of the lord and
they offered sacrifices to the lord and made vows
so if you want to read this text and you want to
go hey so my direct disobedience to the lord as a
second-rate life can lead people to faith in jesus
because these people i mean they saw the lord
nowhere let me just be clear
nowhere in the word does it say
to live a disobedient life so somebody can come to
faith in jesus but does it happen does it happen
where somebody who lives that disobedient life
other people experience god absolutely but they
experienced god because of the lord disciplining
jonah and they just happened to be in the area
so by the grace of god these people got to
experience god and i'll give you just a little
bit of a life experience or example with this is
um we're not proud of it but brittany married me
as an unbeliever she was a believer i was an
unbeliever and look at where we're at i mean can't
god do that to anybody that marries an unbeliever
he could her sisters have asked that question to
her um with some some guys that they were going
to marry and didn't work out um and we just told
him hey we could promote hey yeah i'd work out
i mean it worked for us but we didn't we said no
because here's the thing that we share with
them we could have avoided a lot of hurt
and a lot of brokenness if we would have got
that relationship right at the beginning so
don't count on your second-rate living as though
god's just gonna miraculously use that to bring
people to faith in jesus it's it's not it's not
valuable to think that so here's the here's the
last thing that we're going to talk about is who
does god use to speak to us about our second-rate
living a lot of times you know we talk about
the other believer we talk about the word of god
but have we ever thought that it could be
somebody who doesn't know jesus that actually
really gets our lives back on track and this is
where we see this in verse six it says the captain
approached him and said what the heck are you
doing sound asleep that's basically what he said
i bet he was probably yelling calling him a fool
i don't know but it sounds pretty crazy he says
get up and call to your god and maybe this god
will consider us and we won't perish see god uses
sometimes the lost world around us those who just
don't know jesus around us to really speak to us
and i think that the reason why they do is there's
there's two reasons is one they're just they've
got logical sense of understanding the condition
that you're in is desperate but maybe the reason
why they're speaking to you in such a way is
because they're negatively being affected thinking
going back to the last point sometimes we're
negatively affecting people who don't know jesus
and they're trying to speak truth in our
life and we don't want to hear it because
we're not a follower of jesus and god's
like no i'm using them to speak to you
so jonah wasn't just physically sleeping but he
was spiritually sleeping he needed to wake up
and so god used this captain to speak to him
and he used these words he says get up and arise
or call out to your god and when you look at
really in the bible this word arise or get up
it's generally used in a calling of god for
people to get up and properly represent him
so god used someone who didn't even know
him to speak to jonah's life and say get
up and represent me the way you should get up
and arise and represent me the way you should
see i think of ephesians 5 14 we walked through
the book of ephesians recently and it says this
it says get up sleeper rise up from the dead and
christ will shine on you that's exactly what that
seller was saying to jonah see our community
our co-workers our friends our families are
asking each one of us to get up and arise and
live the life that god's called us to live not
a second-rate life just getting through not just
trying to make it on grace and what i mean by that
is a lot of times we just justify our disobedience
with grace when god is saying that's not your best
it's not your best i remember this and i'm i'm i'm
coming to a close here so you guys know when when
i met warren uh which is the guy who allowed us to
be able to make a connection here at pathway great
guy used to be a pastor here locally he told me
that this principal told him this this statement
one day warren where's the church in the schools
and when warren told me that i began to thank god
because god's called us here to impact this
community through the schools that's was
our hearts desire but i just think about this it
took maybe somebody who has lost a lost principle
asking where's the church for us to really get the
picture of man why aren't we living our lives out
in the schools why aren't we
living it out in other places
so i don't know about you guys but i know
whenever i think about what does it look like
to be the church it's to live a first-rate life to
live within the will of god and the purpose of god
that he has for you so i'll go back to this and
so you know hey do we uniquely figure this out
no we just use the word of god to figure out who
we are as a church as a church we have committed
to inspire hope by helping people by helping you
discover your purpose through a relationship with
jesus the only way that you'll know what god has
planned for you is if you pursue a relationship
with jesus that's where it starts that's where
it ends that's the middle that's the quarter
way that's the three quarters way it's all way
through jesus and i love this as it ends verse six
the seller says this maybe this god the one
true god will consider us and we won't perish
how many people that we live around
is searching for the one true god
to move in their life to
save them from their storm
we have the answer we have the ability to live
the life that the world needs to see the question
is will we live it that's the question i ask
you today will you live it will you allow god
to use you to live a life that brings honor to him
and brings people to jesus and so you know this
and this is just kind of a challenge we don't work
for salvation we work from salvation so if you're
wondering well ben are you telling me because
i'm not living this first-rate life that that
i'm not saved because i'm not doing enough that's
not what i'm saying because the only way that you
can live a first-rate life is because of what
christ did christ has done everything for you to
be able to live the life he's called you to live
and if you begin to depend upon yourself so that
justifies you before the lord you've missed the
point you don't work for salvation you work from
it which means as you've given your life to jesus
now god begins to use his power in you to go work
so don't let this weight of living a first-rate
life rely on your shoulders it's really on
jesus working in and through you through a
relationship with him so how do you respond
to divine interruptions let me just end with
this first thing that we learn from this is
don't get mad if you are in a storm maybe god's
using this message to to draw you to conviction
don't get mad don't get mad the storm is a
way of god getting your attention he's got a
better way for you to live we should respond with
thankfulness we should respond by taking his hand
during the storm and allowing him to
help us begin to live the life that he
has planned for us to receive his grace
and mercy and take the next right step
what is the next right step here in just a moment
we're going to have a time of invitation and
every church has some form of a time of invitation
and i don't think we explain it well enough what
is the purpose of invitation it's inviting each
person not just people who don't know jesus but
each person to take a next right step so you get
a time to just consider lord how did this message
speak to me how did the conversations i had
between people and their conversations speak to me
and so here's just a couple ways that maybe god's
speaking to you and ways to follow through with it
number one salvation maybe you've come to the
realization that you haven't given your life
to jesus and if if you haven't don't freak out
as though oh gosh i've been found out or i just
no this is actually a good thing because
you recognize your need for jesus
at here at inspire and hope we celebrate people
who need or want or desire to come to faith in
jesus and you can do that today through coming and
talking with me my wife brittany will be over here
i'll be in the back during invitation you just
come back there and say hey can you you tell me
what does it mean to follow jesus um i would love
to talk with you um maybe here's one is baptism
you know a lot of times we we give our lives to
jesus and maybe it's not this one special moment
where we recognize that we've given our lives
to jesus but we've never followed through in
believers baptism and what is what is believers
baptism it is baptism after salvation again
i've had this conversation with people hey i got
baptized as a child well did you give your life
to jesus as a child and you got baptized
after or did you give your life to jesus
later on in life but you were baptized before why
does it matter it's a matter of obedience it's not
a matter of your salvation whether you're saved
it's a matter of obedience to the lord so maybe
your next right step is to get baptized on the
right side of your salvation and that is honoring
to the lord and that's a way for you to publicly
declare i want to follow jesus in every area of my
life and this is a great first step so if you
have questions about being baptized come talk
to me after service we can do that that's a great
thing that god honors and we celebrate as a church
but here's the next one is maybe it's none of
those things and you just are wondering hey ben
what what is my next step here's where i'm at my
faith i'm not going to have all the right answers
but i'm willing to walk with you and talk with you
about maybe a next right step maybe that's a time
to get into inspire group maybe that's the time
to begin to serve the lord where you live maybe
that's the time to where you get more dedicated
to your time in the word i can help with that
that's what i'm here for is to help you follow
jesus better but i know this every one of us has
a next right step during this time of invitation
ask the lord what it is and respond with yes
let's pray lord jesus you are god and we are
not and lord today we recognize our need for you
more than ever because lord the storms
in our lives sometimes are there just to
to grow us in our faith lord but sometimes the
storms in our life are to draw us back to you
and lord we just pray that you give us guidance
through your word today lord through conviction
maybe through another believer maybe through
someone who doesn't know you lord may you give us
what we need to make that step of obedience
towards you to live the first rate life you
have planned for us in your will to help others
know you and to help us know you more god we thank
you so much that you speak to us through your word
and the lord that you give us a group of people to
come together to encourage one another to do life
even though we know at times we are not living the
life maybe you called us to live but but others
to come alongside us to encourage us in our faith
but god i just pray that if there's someone in
this room that's struggling to take that next step
if there's someone in this room that's struggling
to take this next step lord of salvation that you
help them stand up and have the faith to say yes
lord don't let them leave today before they make
that decision lord we love you and we thank you
again for this time and what you're doing in
our church and in each one of us here lord today
and we just give you honor and praise and glory
for it we pray this in your heavenly name amen